>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SUNDA
OF SERGEANT BOWE BERGDAHL AFTE
FIVE YEARS IN TALIBAN CAPTIVITY.
>>> WHY INDIAN TEC
ENTREPRENEURS ARE HEADING HOME
>> WE CAN MAKE MUCH HIGHER
SALARY IN THE U.S.
THIS IS A ONCE IN A LIFETIME
OPPORTUNITY.
>>> AND UNDER THREAT
ANIMALS AND PLANTS ON THE BRIN
OF A GREAT EXTINCTION, NEXT ON
"PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND"
FROM THE TISH WNU STUDIOS, HAR
SREENIVASAN.
>>> U.S. ARMY SERGEANT BOW
BERGDAHL IS RECUPERATING TODAY
IN GERMANY HELD CAPTIVE FOR FIVE
YEARS THE NATION'S LAST KNOW
PRISONER OF THE AFGHAN WAR WAS
RELEASED SATURDAY IN EXCHANG
FOR FIVE PRISONERS
TRAVELING TO AFGHANISTAN DEFENSE
SECRETARY CHUCK HAGEL SAID U.S
OFFICIALS HAD TO ACT QUICKLY T
RESCUE BERGDAHL.
>> WE HAD INFORMATION THAT HIS
HEALTH COULD BE DETERIORATIN
RAPIDLY.
THERE WAS A QUESTION ABOUT HIS
SAFETY
WE FOUND AN OPPORTUNITY.
WE TOOK THAT OPPORTUNITY
I'LL STAND BY THAT DECISION.
I SIGNED OFF ON THE DECISION
THE PRESIDENT MADE THE ULTIMAT
DECISION
>> REPUBLICANS SAID PRESIDEN
OBAMA VIOLATED U.S. LAW BY
APPROVING A PRISONER EXCHANG
WITHOUT NOTIFYING CONGRESS I
ADVANCE.
SPEAKING ON CBS'S "FACE TH
NATION" JOHN McCAIN CRITICIZED
THE DECISION TO RELEASE HIGH
LEVEL DETAINEES.
>> I THINK THERE IS QUESTION
ABOUT THESE INDIVIDUALS WHO AR
BEING RELEASED AND THE
CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH THEY WILL
BE RELEASED.
THESE ARE THE HARDEST OF THE
HARD CORE.
THESE ARE THE HIGHEST HIGH RIS
PEOPLE
>> MEANWHILE IN BERGDAHL'S
HOMETOWN OF HAILEY, IDAHO PEOPLE
WAIT FOR HIS RETURN.
>> WE HAVEN'T TALKED TO BOWE
YET.
WE HAVEN'T CALLED HIM ON THE
PHONE.
THERE IS REASON FOR THAT AND
THAT IS BECAUSE BOWE HAS BEE
GONE SO LONG THAT IT'S GOING T
BE VERY DIFFICULT TO COME BACK
>> AND IN IRAQ MAY WAS THE
DEADLIEST MONTH SO FAR THIS YEAR
ACCORDING TO THE UNITED NATIONS.
VIOLENCE CLAIMED THE LIVES O
799 IRAQIS
MORE THAN 600 WERE CIVILIANS
TERRORIST ATTACKS BY AL QAED
MILITANTS HAS INTENSIFIED.
THE ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER URGED
THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY NO
TO RECOGNIZE A UNIFIED
PALESTINIAN GOVERNMENT
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU SAID
CABINET WOULD JEOPARDIZE PEACE
TALKS.
>> Translator: IT IS A TERRORIST
ORGANIZATION THAT CALLS FOR TH
DESTRUCTION OF ISRAEL.
THIS WILL NOT STRENGTHEN PEACE
IT WILL STRENGTHEN TERROR.
>> PALESTINIAN PRESIDENT SAID AN
ANNOUNCEMENT WILL COME TOMORROW.
>>> AN UPDATE ON THE CASE OF THE
MOTHER CONVICTED IN SUDAN.
ON SATURDAY GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
TOLD THE BBC HER RELEASE WAS
IMMINENT
LAWYERS SAY ONLY A COURT COULD
AUTHORIZE THEIR CLIENT'S RELEASE
AND THIS IS JUST A POLITICAL
STATEMENT.
SHE AND HER 20-MONTH-OLD CHILD
HAS BEEN IN THE WOMEN'S PRISON
SINCE FEBRUARY
A BABY GIRL.
A COALITION OF RELIGIOUS LEADERS
IN PAKISTAN HAVE ISSUED
STATEMENT ABOUT HONOR KILLINGS
THIS COMES AFTER THE GRUESOM
HONOR KILLING ON TUESDAY WHICH
SPARKED OUTRAGE AND CO
DEMNATION IN PAKISTAN.
THE PAKISTANI HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION ESTIMATES THERE WER
NEARLY 900 HONOR KILLINGS LAST
YEAR, MOSTLY IN RURAL AREAS.
>>> SIX CLIMBERS IN WASHINGTON
ARE PRESUMED DEAD AFTE
SEARCHERS FOUND CLIMBING
EQUIPMENT ON THE MOUNTAI
BELIEVED TO BE THEIRS.
THE FOUR CLIMBERS AND TWO GUIDES
WERE LAST HEARD FROM O
WEDNESDAY WHEN THE MEN FAILED TO
RETURN TO BASE RESCUE CREWS WERE
ALERTED.
AN OFFICIAL SAID TODAY THE
SEARCH HAS BEEN SUSPENDED AN
THERE ARE NO PLANS TO RECOVE
THE BODIES OF THE CLIMBERS A
CONDITIONS ON MANY PARTS OF TH
MOUNTAIN ARE TOO DANGEROUS FOR
RESCUERS
>>> LEWIS KATZ WAS KILLED ON
SATURDAY NIGHT ALONG WITH SI
OTHER PEOPLE ON BOARD WHEN THE
PRIVATE JET HE WAS ON CAUGHT
FIRE AS IT TRIED TO TAKE OFF A
A SMALL AIRPORT NEAR BOSTO
ENROUTE TO ATLANTIC CITY
A FEW WEEKS EARLIER HE GAINE
CONTROL OF A MEDIA COMPANY
KATZ'S SON WILL TAKE HIS PLACE
ON THE BOARD
THE NATIONAL TRANSPORTATIO
SAFETY BOARD WILL INVESTIGAT
THE CRASH.
>>> RETURNING NOW TO THE RELEASE
OF BOWE BERGDAHL
WE ARE JOINED ONCE AGAIN FRO
WASHINGTON, D.C. BY ADAMANT S.
LET'S TALK ABOUT SOME OF THE
CRITIQUES THAT YOU SAW ON TH
SUNDAY MORNING TALK SHOWS.
YOU HAD SENATOR McCAIN AND
OTHERS WONDERING WHAT ASSURANC
THAT WE HAVE THAT THE FIVE
INDIVIDUALS WE TRADED FOR BOWE
BERGDAHL DON'T GO BACK ON TH
BATTLEFIELD AGAINST US IN TH
FUTURE
>> WELL, THIS WAS A BIG EFFORT
ON THE PART OF THE U.S
NEGOTIATING TEAM IN THE MONTHS
LEADING UP TO THIS TRANSFER AN
EXCHANGE WHERE THEY WERE WORKING
OUT WITH THE GOVERNMENT OF QATAR
TO GET THE ASSURANCES WHIC
INCLUDES A ONE-YEAR TRAVEL BAN
FOR THE FIVE DETAINEES RETURNE
TO QATAR WHERE THEY WILL B
MONITORED BY SECURITY FORCES AND
THE NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY O
THE UNITED STATES TO MAKE SURE
THAT THEY DON'T STAR
COMMUNICATING TACTICALLY WIT
THE TALIBAN IN THE FIELD
>> SOME MEMBERS OF CONGRESS HAVE
BEEN CONCERNED THAT THIS PUT
BIG BULLS EYE ON THE BACK OF
EVERY AMERICAN SOLDER THAT ONE
U.S. SOLDIER IS WORTH FIVE HIG
VALUED PRISONERS THAT WE HAVE.
>> AMERICAN OFFICIALS WHO DEFEND
THIS EXCHANGE POINT OUT THAT
OBAMA HAS SET A POLICY OF TRYING
TO CLOSE DOWN THE GUANTANAMO BAY
PRISON IN CUBA ANYWAYS
SO AT LEAST DOWN THE ROAD THER
WAS THIS INTENT TO HAVE TO
TRANSFER THEM AT SOME POINT.
YOU KNOW, THERE IS DEFINITELY AN
ARGUMENT TO BE MADE THAT THI
EXCHANGE GIVES A BOOST TO TH
TALIBAN JUST AT A TIME WHEN TH
U.S. IS WINDING DOWN ITS FORCE
THERE.
AT THE SAME TIME, YOU KNOW,
THINK FOR AMERICAN OFFICIALS
THIS WAS IN SOME WAYS SOMETHIN
OF A TEST OF CONCEPT THAT THEY
CAN NEGOTIATE SOMETHING VERY
COMPLEX WITH TALIBAN NEGOTIATORS
AND ACCORDING TO THE NEGOTIATORS
AT THE AMERICAN SIDE THAT I HAVE
SPOKEN TO THEY WERE RATHER
IMPRESSED BY THE
STRAIGHTFORWARDNESS OF THE
TALIBAN NEGOTIATING TEAM AND THE
COMMAND AND CONTROL THAT THE
WERE ABLE TO EXERCISE TO CARRY
OUT THIS VERY COMPLEX, HIGHL
CHOREOGRAPHED EXCHANGE
>> IS THIS SOMETHING THAT CA
HAPPEN IN THE FUTURE
WHAT IS THE DIPLOMATIC END GAME?
>> THIS COULD BE ONE OF.
IT IS UNCLEAR WHERE THIS LEADS
THE TALIBAN WERE CLEAR THA
THESE NEGOTIATIONS WERE ONLY
ABOUT BERGDAHL AND THE FIV
DETAINEES.
THAT SAID, FOR THE AMERICAN SIDE
AT LEAST THERE IS SORT OF
SENSE OF POTENTIAL HOPE THAT
THERE MIGHT BE COMMON GROUND
THAT COULD BE USED GOING FORWARD
NOW THAT THE AMERICANS SEE THA
THERE IS A PARTNER ON THE OTHE
SIDE THAT THEY CAN HAVE
CONVERSATION WITH.
THAT CAN BE EXPANDED DOWN TH
ROAD IF THERE IS AN EFFORT FOR A
BROADER EFFORT TO TRY TO
RECONCILE IN AFGHANISTAN
>> JOINING US FROM WASHINGTON,
THANKS SO MUCH
>> THANK YOU
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT.
TONIGHT THE GROWTH OF HIGH TEC
ENTREPRENEURSHIP IN INDIA.
INSTEAD OF FLEEING FOR SILICON
VALLEY OR NEW YORK MANY INDIAN
TECH ENTREPRENEURS INCLUDING
THOSE WHO ARE EDUCATED AND
WORKED IN THE U.S. ARE DECIDIN
TO BUILD BUSINESSES IN INDIA
THEY ARE FOCUSING ON THE GROWING
INDIAN DOMESTIC MARKET AND
LOOKING TO COMPETE GLOBALLY AN
SOME AMERICANS ARE FOLLOWING
THERE.
I REPORTED FROM INDIA AND WE
INITIALLY AIRED THIS REPORT IN
FEBRUARY
THIS CITY OF MORE THAN 1
MILLION PEOPLE LONG HAS BEEN
KNOWN AS SILICON VALLEY IN
INDIA, A PLACE WHERE LEADING
COMPANIES EXPORT JOBS.
THAT LESSON HAS NOT BEEN LOST ON
INDIAN HIGH TECH ENTREPRENEURS
MANY OF WHOM HAVE FACED VISA
HURDLES IN THE U.S
DESPITE DEALING WITH ROLLING
POWER OUTAGES, RAMPANT
CONGESTION AND CORRUPTION OF A
DEVELOPING COUNTRY MANY OF THESE
INDIANS ARE RETURNING HOME AFTER
BEING EDUCATED IN THE UNITED
STATES
THEY ARE BENEFITTING FROM
CULTURE CHANGE AROUND STARTUPS
AND CONVINCED THAT INDIA
PRESENTS A UNIQUE SET OF
OPPORTUNITIES.
>> THEY ARE REALLY GOING AFTER
MOON SHARKS.
>> Reporter: AN ENTREPRENEUR AND
INVESTOR IN EARLY STAGE STARTUPS
WHO HAS A THINK TANK DEVOTED T
HELPING SOFTWARE PRODUCT
COMPANIES IN INDIA
>> THE CULTURE HERE IS
INHERENTLY RISK OVERSE
WHEN PEOPLE SAY GET A JOB IN A
FANTASTIC BIG COMPANY THAT I
WHAT WE HAVE PREPARED YOU FO
AND POURED LOVE AND AFFECTIO
AND MONEY AND SCHOOLING INTO
YOU.
WHAT HAS CHANGED IN INDIA SO
PEOPLE ARE TURNING TOWARDS
STARTUPS
>> THERE WILL BE AT LEAST ON
COMPANY WORTH A BILLION DOLLARS.
THAT IS CHANGING THE PERCEPTION.
YOU CAN GO FROM A ZERO TO A HERO
IN THE STARTUP AND THERE ARE
EXAMPLES OF THAT
SINCE THERE ARE EXAMPLES OF THAT
THERE ARE REALLY SMART PEOPL
BEGINNING TO DO THAT
>> Reporter: WE MET?
ENTREPRENEURS TAKING THA
CHANCE
THE CO-FOUNDER AND CEO OF
TRAVEL STARTUP THAT ALLOWS USERS
TO BROWSE ITINERARIES TAKEN BY
PEOPLE, CUSTOMIZE THEM AND BOO
THEIR OWN TRIPS.
>> WE ARE GOING AFTER BEING TH
WORLD'S DESTINATION FO
PLANNING
ESSENTIALLY A BILLION DOLLAR
PLUS BUSINESS.
>> Reporter: LEFT A JOB AT
GOOGLE IN NEW YORK TO LAUNCH I
BANGALOR
>> I THOUGHT IT WAS A LARG
COMPLEX PROBLEM THAT I DIDN'
THINK WOULD BE SOLVED IN THREE
MONTHS TIME.
IT IS HUMAN INTENSIVE AN
ENGINEERING INTENSIVE.
IT MADE SENSE TO BE IN THE
GEOGRAPHY I COULD THINK OF WHERE
IT COMES TOGETHER.
>> Reporter: THE MONEY RAISE
HAS GONE A LOT FURTHER IN INDIA.
INSTEAD OF AFFORDING A SMALL
TEAM IN THE U.S. HE HAS A STAF
OF 17 INCLUDING TEN ENGINEERS.
HE SAYS THANKS IN PART T
SILICON VALLEY-LIKE PERKS HE
HASN'T LOST A SINGLE ENGINEER IN
THREE YEARS.
HE SAYS WHEN IT COMES TO
DEVELOPING A SOFTWARE PRODUCT IT
IS TRULY A FLAT WORLD.
LOCATION IS ALMOST IRRELEVANT.
>> WE ARE NOT FOCUSED ON THE
INDIAN MARKET ALONE.
INDIAN MARKET IS A QUARTER O
OUR TRAFFIC.
BEING IN INDIA ALLOWS YOU TO
TAKE ON GLOBAL MARKETS MUCH MORE
EFFECTIVELY.
>> Reporter: MARKETING
ESPECIALLY WHEN COMPETING WITH
PRICE LINE AND EXPEDIA IT ISN'
AS EASY.
>> TRAVEL IS EXCEPTIONALLY HARD.
I WISH SOMEONE HAD TOLD ME THA
WHEN I STARTED THIS COMPANY.
BUT HERE WE ARE.
>> Reporter: SO AFTER MORE THA
FOUR YEARS IN INDIA HE AND HIS
FAMILY ARE PLANNING ON MOVIN
BACK TO THE UNITED STATES.
HE THINKS MORE PEOPLE WILL
DISCOVER HIS BUSINESS ONCE HE IS
ABLE TO BUILD PARTNERSHIPS
>> I LOVE BEING IN INDIA AND THE
U.S., AS WELL.
AS PERSONAL NEEDS ARISE I SE
MYSELF GOING BACK AND FORTH TO
THE TWO COUNTRIES.
I SEE INDIA AS A TRADE
DESTINATION AND SEE COMPANIE
COMING OUT OF THE AREA MUCH MORE
OFTEN.
>> OTHER ENTREPRENEURS WHO DID
HIS GRADUATE WORK AT COLUMBI
UNIVERSITY IN NEW YORK SAY
INDIA'S RAPIDLY GROWING MIDDLE
CLASS IS TOO TEMPTING A TARGET
TO RESIST.
BY SOME ESTIMATES THE MIDDLE
CLASS WILL MORE THAN QUADRUPLE
>> I THINK IT IS AN EXCITING
TIME TO BE IN YOUNG BUSINESS I
INDIA.
>>> THE CEO OF ONLINE MARKET
PLACE CONCEIVED BY HIS BROTHER
WHO WORKED FOR AMAZON IN
SEATTLE.
THE COMPANY ALLOWS INDIANS T
COMPARE AND OBTAIN MORTGAGES
CAR LOANS, INSURANCE ONLINE.
>> WHEN THE OPPORTUNITY CAME U
I HADN'T PLANNED IT OR TIMED I
THAT WAY
BUT IT WAS A GREAT IDEA.
AND I DECIDED TO MAKE THE JUMP
AND THAT'S HOW I ENDED BACK IN
INDIA.
>> THE COMPANY HAS GROWN TO 20
EMPLOYEES WITH OFFICES IN THRE
CITIES
HE SAYS BEING IN A DEVELOPIN
ECONOMY MEANS THE ABILITY TO
INNOVATE RAPIDLY
>> IN SIX MONTHS WE HAVE
LAUNCHED A PRODUCT WITH A LARG
BANK
COULD WE DO THIS IN AMERICA?
CAN I GO TO A CITI BANK OFFICE
IN NEW YORK AND SAY I HAVE THI
PLATFORM
MIGHT HAVE BEEN A LITTLE MOR
DIFFICULT.
>> THE DECISION MEANS HE CAN B
CLOSE TO FAMILY MEMBERS HE MIGHT
OTHERWISE SEE ONCE A YEAR.
HE SAYS HE WANTS TO BE PART OF
HIS GENERATION'S GROWING
AWARENESS AND EMBRAC
ENTREPRENEURSHIP
>> THE FEELING THAT I CAN GET
JOB WITH A BANK OR INSURANCE
COMPANY OR MICROSOFT OR GOOGLE
IF I WANTED TO
THE REASON I AM DOING THIS I
BECAUSE I HAVE DONE THAT AND I
WANT SOMETHING MORE CHALLENGING.
>> A SMALL COMMUNITY OF YOUN
AMERICAN ENTREPRENEURS MOVED T
INDIA, AS WELL
THEY MET AS UNDER GRADUATES AT
THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA
HE ATTENDED HARVARD LAW SCHOOL
AND BOTH DROPPED OUT OF BUSINESS
SCHOOL TO START ZOOM, A ZIP CA
STYLE CAR SHARING BUSINESS I
INDIA.
>> IT WAS SORT OF LIKE A N
BRAINER.
THE SIZE OF THE OPPORTUNITY IS
STAGGERING
>> URBAN DENSITY IS THE SINGLE
BIGGEST PREDICTOR OF CAR SHARING
SUCCESS.
IF YOU ARE LOOKING AT LARGE,
DENSE CITIES THAT DON'T OWN CARS
THE FACT THAT CAR SHARING HA
NOT BEEN DONE IS SHOCKING.
WITH A MILLION PEOPLE OR MORE BY
SINCE LAUNCHING MORE THAN A YEAR
AGO ZOOM HAS BEEN SOLD OUT EVERY
WEEKEND.
THE COMPANY IS HOPING TO EXPAN
TO A SECOND CITY
>> ASIDE FROM THE BUSINESS YOU
HAVE MADE PERSONAL SACRIFICES TO
BE HERE.
YOU COULD BE MAKING MONE
POSSIBLY ON WALL STREET,
POSSIBLY IN THE U.S.
IS IT A RISK WORTH TAKING?
>> WELL, THERE IS NO QUESTIO
THAT IT IS WORTH TAKING.
SURE, WE WOULD BE MAKING MUC
HIGHER SALARY IN THE U.S. BUT IT
IS PERSONAL BEING SEPARATED FROM
MY GIRLFRIEND FOR A YEAR AND A
HALF
THAT IS THE REAL COST.
IT IS STILL WORTH IT
THE SKILL AND OPPORTUNITY IS A
ONCE IN A LIFETIME OPPORTUNITY
>> NO QUESTION
IT HELPS WE ARE STILL YOUNG,
BOTH UNDER 30.
WE ARE NOT MARRIED
WE WERE VERY FORTUNATE IN TH
FACT THAT FOR US IT WAS
PERFECT TIME IN OUR LIVES.
>> THEY ARE COMMITTED TO BEING
IN INDIA FOR AT LEAST THE NEXT
COUPLE OF YEARS.
>> IT IS CRAZY HOW AMBITIOUS I
IS
IF YOU COME BACK TO US IN FIVE
YEARS THERE IS A CHANCE WE COULD
BE A BILLION DOLLAR COMPANY AN
WE COULD BE HUGELY DISRUPTIN
THE WAY THAT PEOPLE IN INDIA
CITIES GET AROUND.
>> BESIDES CHALLENGES SOMETIME
UNRELIABLE ELECTRICITY
CORRUPTION, SAYS THE BIGGEST
WORRIES ARE THE SAME ONE
STARTUPS FACE NO MATTER WHER
THEY ARE BASED
>> MOST STARTUPS FAIL.
THE NUMBERS ARE STACKED AGAINS
YOU WHEN YOU DECIDE TO TAKE ON A
VENTURE LIKE THIS.
IS THERE ANYTHING DIFFEREN
ABOUT THE ENTREPRENEURSHIP
CLIMATE HERE
>> IT IS HIGHER.
>> IN 2012 ONLY ONE INDIAN
COMPANY AMONG 500 FIRMS ACQUIRED
BY SOME OF THE BIGGEST TEC
COMPANIES IN THE WORLD
>> AS THE WAVE O
ENTREPRENEURSHIP IN INDI
INCREASES WHAT DOES THE U.S.
STAND TO LOSE?
>> THERE ARE IRRITANTS LIK
THESE VISA ISSUES.
I THINK IN SOME SENSE U.S. HAS
POSITIONED ITSELF AS A FOUNTAI
HEAD OF TECH ENTREPRENEURSHIP.
>> IN MANY FROM SILICON VALLEY
VENTURE CAPITAL FIRMS TO
INTERNATIONAL TECH GIANTS LIKE
MICROSOFT ARE BETTING ON INDIA
ENTREPRENEURS AND ON INDIA
ITSELF EMERGING AS A HUGE CENTER
FOR INNOVATION
MEET AN ENTREPRENEUR IN INDI
USING CELL PHONES TO FIND PEOPLE
BETTER JOBS.
VISIT NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG
>>> PLANT AND ANIMAL EXTINCTIONS
ARE HAPPENING AT A RATE 1,00
TIMES QUICKER.
THE PLANET HAS BEEN THROUGH FIVE
MAJOR EXTINCTIONS BEFORE
SCIENTISTS THINK WE ARE ON THE
CUSP OF A SIXTH.
I SPOKE WITH STEWART PIM
>> AN ENORMOUS ASTEROID PLOWED
INTO THE YUCATAN PENINSULA I
MEXICO
IT STERILIZED MUCH OF NORT
AMERICA AND ELIMINATED THE
DINOSAURS.
THAT KIND OF CATASTROPHE WILL BE
WHAT WILL HAPPEN OVER THE NEXT
100 YEARS IF WE DON'T DO
SOMETHING ABOUT THE SPECIE
EXTINCTION CRISIS.
WE WILL LEAVE TO OUR CHILDRE
AND GRANDCHILDREN A MUCH
DEPLETED PLANET.
>> HOW DO WE KNOW ABOUT THE RATE
OF EXTINCTION SINCE HUMANS HAV
ONLY BEEN ON THE PLANET FOR
CERTAIN PERIOD OF TIME
>> THERE ARE TWO PARTS OF IT
ONE IS WHAT IS HAPPENING NOW O
AT LEAST OVER THE LAST 50 TO 100
YEARS.
WE CAN FOLLOW SPECIES FROM WHE
WE FIRST LEARNED ABOUT THEM TO
THE PRESENT AND SEE WHAT
FRACTION OF THEM ARE DYING OFF
AND THEY ARE DYING OFF A PRETT
HEFTY RATE
WORKING OUT WHAT HAPPENED BEFORE
HUMANS CAME ALONG IS A LITTL
MORE DIFFICULT
THE FOSSIL RECORD CAN TELL US
LOT ABOUT THAT
WE ALSO LEARN A LOT FROM THEIR
DNA, FROM THE MOLECULAR EVIDENCE
OF HOW FAST SPECIES ARE BORN AND
HOW FAST THEY DIE OFF.
AND IT'S COMPARING THOSE TWO
THINGS, WHAT IS HAPPENING TO
SPECIES NOW WITH WHAT HAPPENED
IN THE GEOLOGICAL PAST THAT HA
ALLOWED US TO COME UP WITH THE
STATEMENT OF HOW FAST SPECIE
ARE GOING EXTINCT.
>> HELP US PUT THIS STARTLIN
EXTINCTION NUMBER IN PERSPECTIVE
A BIT.
>> EXTINCTION IS A DEATH RATE.
WE USED TO THINK OF HUMAN BEINGS
DYING OFF THE RATE PER YEAR.
SPECIES OFTEN DIE OFF BUT TH
RATE OF 1 SPECIES IN TEN MILLION
A YEAR
SPECIES ARE GOING EXTINCT TH
RATE OF 100 TO 1,000 SPECIES
EXTINCTIONS PER MILLION SPECIES.
AND THAT IS A RATE THAT IS VERY,
VERY MUCH HIGHER THAN WE THOUGHT
IT WAS
>> AND WHAT IS CAUSING THESE
EXTINCTIONS?
IS IT HUMANS
IS IT CLIMATE?
>> WE ARE THE ULTIMATE PROBLEM
THERE ARE 7 BILLION PEOPLE O
THE PLANET
WE TEND TO DESTROY CRITICA
HABITATS WHERE SPECIES LIVE.
WE TEND TO BE WARMING TH
PLANET
WE TEND TO BE CARELESS ABOUT
MOVING SPECIES AROUND THE PLANET
TO PLACES WHERE THEY DON'T
BELONG AND WHERE THEY CAN.
>> PEOPLE ARE ASSISTING IN
CONSERVATION EFFORTS WIT
TECHNOLOGY IN THEIR HANDS TODAY.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
THERE ARE MILLIONS OF PEOPLE
AROUND THE WORLD WHO ARE
PASSIONATE ABOUT ORCHIDS AND
FROGS AND BIRDS AND DRAGON
FLIES.
AND THAT CROWD SOURCING IS
GIVING US AN ENORMOUS AMOUNT O
DETAILED INFORMATION ABOUT WHERE
SPECIES ARE.
AND WE CAN USE THAT DETAILED
INFORMATION TO SEND VERY
PRECISE, VERY CRISP CONSERVATION
PRIORITIES
IT HELPS US KNOW WHERE WE NEED
TO ACT, WHERE WE NEED TO INVES
OUR SCARCE CONSERVATION DOLLARS.
>> THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR HAVIN
ME ON THE PROGRAM.
>>> THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION
OF "PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND".
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN
THANKS FOR WATCHING.